*Research and Application of Methods:*
	Going into this project, I have already had some experience with computer vision driven by specialized machine learning models.  My current personal project that I have taken up over the summer involves using machine learning models to enhance and automate surveillance around my neighborhood.  With multiple layers of different specialized ML models that I have trained, the program can detect people, animals, different vehicles, and a vehicle’s license plate.  In future versions, the program will be able to recognize these same objects depending on their characteristics.  This pre-existing knowledge in ML and CV as well as some programming tricks and bash knowhow I have gathered through ECE 205 and hardware integration through ECE 296 made the foundation of what I intended to provide to this project.
	Throughout this semester there were a few different methods that I had to research in order to implement them into this project.  The first was how to use the Roboflow Software as a Service (SaaS) to offset gas meter detection inference computation off of the RPi.  This likely increased reading accuracy and speed significantly relative to running the model on the RPi.  There are some downsides to this including requiring stable internet connection for every reading and decreasing privacy as this data is sent to a SaaS for readings.  I have also researched the optimal way of storing information in an organized manner for it to seamlessly pipe straight to a data visualization program.  With my research, I have concluded that SQLite would be the best database engine as it is light weight and easy to work with.  Eventually, once a centralized network of RPi’s are made, the RPi acting as the server would then store a copy of all of the databases stored locally on each edge device.

*Accomplishments:*
	By the first two thirds of the semester, I have successfully trained a specialized ML model on a dataset of gauges on Roboflow.  I have also created a program that takes a full gas meter image as input, pipes that image to the specialized model which detects, crops, and labels each of the dials, then pipes the cropped images to the pre-existing code which would read each individual dial.  This program also sums each of the readings based on the labeled magnitude of each gauge and provides a final reading.  Though I have not directly contributed to “refining” the pre-existing code, I have incorporated a feature that allows it to read dials that rotate in either direction.  
	A few weeks after, I have managed to create a program that generates a database file in a specified directory if it is not detected and have it so whenever a reading is made, that reading is turned into a datapoint on said database with additional information such as the location of the gas meter and the date and time of reading taken.  In the future, a csv file with all of the data from the database can be exported and downloaded from the program or be piped straight to a data visualization program to showcase findings.
	In the last few weeks of my time working on this project, I have borrowed a RPi model 4B and have printed a potential casing for the computer as well as an adjustable camera mount.  The casing was made with PLA and secured together with hardware costing just over $16.  This current prototype for the casing provides minimal protection from the environment but allows for the adjusting of the camera with three degrees of freedom to achieve a better view of a gas meter.  I have also been able to clone my full program directly onto the RPi through terminal and run the program successfully with sample images.  In the future, the program will utilize the attached camera to capture an image of the gas meter and pipe that image directly to the rest of the process for reading.  

*Suggestions:*
	The highest priority task for this project would be to run the full program on an RPi that automatically captures the image with the attached camera.  Once a single RPi is able to run the full process and add that reading to its local database, any RPi with an attached camera should be able to do the same.  I took a very modular approach with the program that I made in the sense that it should be able to register any USB or ribbon attached camera and complete a capture.  The program also has a public repository on GitHub, making it extremely easy to download a copy of the program onto any device with an internet connection via terminal by running the “git clone https://…” command.  All that has to be done afterwards is running “pip install -r requirements.txt” which will download all of the necessary libraries in order to run the program automatically.  With just those two lines, the RPi should be able to run.  
	Once the RPi’s are able to conduct readings individually, the next important step is to make a server RPi that acts as the central computer that is connected to each node (preferably wirelessly) that can communicate with, manage, and request readings from each edge RPi.  This central computer will also hold a master database with all readings from each node and host a web application to remotely access all of the RPi’s and their corresponding readings.
	Lower on the priority list are code refinery and re-teaching the gas meter detection model outside of Roboflow so that the group will have full access to the weights file and be able to run the inference locally, without the need of internet connection.


*Installing project onto Raspberry Pi:*
* python3 -m venv venv;
* source venv/bin/activate;
* git clone https://...
* pip install -r requirements.txt

*Working Python Version: 3.13.5*
* Checking for backwards compatability (3.9, 3.10)
